Hi everyone. I'm so young. I'm one of
the co-founders of 12 Labs where I lead
our go to market efforts. Uh today I'm
just going to talk about video. And uh
video is interesting because it's often
a forgotten data format when it comes to
how we understand, utilize and analyze.
Uh but I don't think anyone here can
reject the idea of we use video every
day. It's how we communicate. It's how
we, you know, tell stories. It's how we
record our lives now. Um it's how we
work together. And so 12 Labs as a
company, we were founded uh I think four
and a half years ago and we started
thinking about what can be done to be
able to contextually comprehend videos
at scale that allows us to better
utilize uh all of the knowledge, insight
and stories that live inside video. So
we'll go into that. Uh very simple video
dominates the way that you know we live
today. It's 90% of all the data in the
world. It's going to increase. Um
and just as an example, here are some of
the industries where video is so
important. Um video ccentric
applications, video centric workflows.
Um of course, media, sports,
entertainment is a really big place
where the most valuable stories that we
love to watch uh that we love to share
uh are captured and created. Um
advertising also um told in video is
incredibly powerful. Uh we look at
creator economy, um law enforcement, how
do we stay safe, uh be able to manage
evidence, do investigations, um
healthcare, automotive, um enterprise
knowledge all in the form of video.
But here's the problem which was uh even
if we know that video is powerful, the
technologies to be able to understand
video used to rely on frame
understanding. So if we assume maybe a
video might have every second maybe
let's assume 24 to 30 frames. You're
extracting a frame and you're analyzing
what objects are in a frame. Uh
sometimes we can even do because speech
recognition is very commoditized. We can
even extract transcripts from video and
analyze the dialogue and analyze uh the
language part of video.
But neither is fully sufficient because
if you think about the way we see, hear,
and understand the world. We're
actually, it's actually temporal, right?
We see things that are changing, moving.
Uh we hear sounds that are not
necessarily in language form. If I clap,
that's a sound. If I say something,
that's also dialogue. Um but also sound.
So, how do you combine all of these
things, put it in the context of time,
and be able to almost like a human
contextually comprehend what is
happening inside video so that we're
able to use uh the context. We can
simply very easily search for things and
scenes and moments in video. Uh we can
ask questions of what's happening inside
and almost be able to communicate and
freely use all of that context that is
available to us because we're storing a
lot of it.
Um here's also another challenge. uh
when we had started the company at the
time LLMs were still very nent but even
LLM at the time um and even today uh are
not they can't see the whole picture. Uh
language is very different as a data
format from video. If you think about
the way that words are spoken or said uh
every word has a meaning there's a
reason why we say each word. Uh video is
very redundant in nature and it's
multimodal, right? Uh it has all of
these different inputs and you have to
combine them together and understand
everything temporally.
And so traditional ways of analyzing
video um we talked about frame based
computer vision there's analyzing speech
um but actually what we found is that
most customers most enterprises that are
video ccentric a lot of the ways that as
consumers we find video for ourselves is
manual. Uh, so you actually go back to
footage and as you're watching it, you
take notes, you tag it, and a lot of
organizations actually store
spreadsheets of tags. Uh, often times
they're video filebased tags. You're not
even getting uh in scene invid uh
temporal context. Uh, you're usually
storing you're taking notes on what's
happening and that's really what you're
searching through uh years later when
you're needing to better utilize those
assets. Um, I'll walk through some
examples of a case study later on on
what that means.
And so, if we were to describe things
that we need to find, let's say you're a
sports organization, you're a sports
team, and you're trying to find when
there's a touchdown happening, maybe
there's crowd, the fans applauding, um,
maybe there's a really cool logo in the
background while something really
exciting is happening during a game. How
do you actually describe and find that
exact segment so that you can create a
highlight from it? Um or so that you can
uh show it to fans. And the same problem
and challenge exists for every
organization that has video. Whether
you're trying to go through pabytes of
uh evidence to be able to do an
investigation and or write reports. Uh
whether you're trying to create and
repurpose content from older shows. Uh
it's all the same problem of how do you
understand footage at scale?
Um, in traditional ways of tags, you
would not be able to do this. You would
not be able to describe something you're
looking for and be able to find it
exactly when you need to. There is no
control F for video.
And so the technology uh that 12 Labs
builds is multimodal video
understanding. Uh we built foundation
models that allow you to do semantic
search uh and retrieval across vast
amounts of multimodal data, in this case
video. uh you also are able to
communicate and converse with video. So
this is an example of a query that you
could search that you can run receiver
catches deep ball for touchdown and it
would go across all of those moments
that you have and pinpoint that that
exact scene.
You could also uh because the AI has
created a memory of all of the footage,
all of the videos that you have, you're
also able to reason with it. So you can
ask describe what happens in this clip.
What's funny about this video? Why would
an audience find it interesting? Um,
create a highlight from it and be able
to extract response intelligent
responses from it based on the AI's
understanding of your content.
This is a way of um so this is an
overview of how a video foundation model
will work. In the case of 12 labs, we
have two models. We have our moringo
model and think of moringo uh as a way
of creating this first memory of video.
So the AI will see, hear and kind of
understand and almost create this memory
and we store these in the form of vector
embeddings and uh create vector
embeddings that capture all of the
context of video and these this memory
these embeddings allow you to very
easily search uh and find exact moments
um across your library. Then we have our
second model which is called Pegasus. We
like to name our models after horses. In
this case, it's a fictionary horse, but
um Pegasus allows you to then reason on
top of the memory that Mingo has
created. And so these two work together
to enable a holistic uh set of use cases
uh whatever type of use case you have uh
for your video.
So one of the industries where video is
super powerful as we know is uh where
content is created and stored um media
and entertainment um advertising and how
we you know tell stories. This is I
believe also being captured in video. Um
so let's take a few examples of overall
processes of of content management. Uh
so one when you're creating content when
you're going from raw footage to a story
that can be told to many that's actually
a it's in some ways it's a search
problem. Uh you have a narrative in your
mind as a creative. How do you actually
go across all of your the raw footage
you have uh extract all of the moments
that are relevant and be able to put
them together so that you can very
quickly iterate um on different stories
and be able to you know uh put that
together. And that's a problem that not
only individual creators would have uh
but also the largest organizations and
the largest uh production houses uh
would have too. Uh distribution um when
we get recommended content uh from
platforms are they actually
personalized? Is it actually
understanding what I like to watch
because what I said I like to watch when
I signed up for something could be very
different from my actual behavior. And
so, uh, recommending being able to help
me as a user discover content that's
more relevant to myself that I actually
enjoy watching. Um, all of these are
recommendation and discovery that can be
powered through enhanced content
understanding. Um, I think a lot of us
are probably finding uh shorter form
content on social media that we're, you
know, spending a lot of time scroll
through. I know scrolling through. I
know I am. Content repackaging and
monetization. How do you actually
repurpose all of these incredible
stories that have been created in the
past into more digestible and consumable
format that is more personal and because
you can do this at scale it becomes more
personalized um way for me to consume as
a viewer. Uh these are all challenges
that we find uh challenges or
opportunity as you can call you can call
it opportunity that our customers have
that uh enhanced contextual intelligent
video understanding is able to help
with. And so for 12 labs, we build the
AI that can understand video um and we
provide the technology in forms of APIs
that allow our customers and partners to
be able to build on top of the
technology that we have.
So really quickly, I'm going to go
through an example um of a customer case
study. So Maple Leaf Sports
Entertainment is uh one of the largest
sports entities in Canada. Um, if
anyone's here from Canada, uh, they have
the NBA team, Toronto Raptors, Maple
Leafs, which is an NHL team.
And just like many other content or
media organizations, the challenge is
after every game. Um, and there's also a
huge historical archive there as well.
Uh, how do you actually access the
footage that you own, the assets you own
and have so that you can very quickly
put together stories for fans? And the
demand for content is just exponentially
growing and fans want to see something
that's more personalized to them. And
that means you have to find a way to be
able to scale the way you access your
own footage library and to be able to
piece these stories together uh so that
you can distribute them in more
personalized manner. And so in the case
of Maple Leaf Sports, they actually did
something incredibly cool, which is take
video understanding technology and build
an agentic workflow that can do
prompt-based highlight creation. So, if
I wanted to create a highlight uh around
Vince Vince Carter's 30th anniversary, I
could actually, as a creative um in a
meeting room with all of our marketing
team, I could actually just type in a
prompt or describe things that I have
ideas of in my head. And instead of
everyone leaving the meeting and coming
back a week later, uh we could actually
visually see what those highlights look
like in real time as we're talking about
it. And so the time it takes to create
highlights um and sports content would
take could take up from 16 hours to
days. And now you're cutting that down
to 9 minutes. And that's not just an
efficiency. It's about how do we do more
as an organization. Um, and it's an
incredibly innovative uh use case where
we saw last year one of the first use
cases of true uh agent workflows built
on top of video understanding that
actually allows you to scale as an
organization and to grow the way that
you tell stories. And it's something
that we're seeing increasingly more of
uh from not just sports organizations
but from every could be content creators
um more established legacy media and
studios as well.
Um, I'm gonna walk through on time, but
here's a quick
example of
said technology.
[Music]
And so when you describe things that
you're trying to look for uh whoever
whether you're in a part of organization
or partner,
>> you'd be able to find that exact second
or moment.
And in this case now we're taking the
memory that the AI has created and we're
creating we're reasoning on top of it.
We're asking create hashtags,
descriptions. You can go as far as to
say let's create highlights and chapters
for me um and ask very specific
questions uh about the footage you have.
Yeah, I'm going to skip over the rest.
Um, yeah, and different we 12 apps is a
horizontal platform, meaning the video
uh as a foundation model. The AI can
comprehend any type of footage, whether
it's animation, could be sports, uh
could be your dash cam footage. Um, in
this case, I'm I'm going to just wrap up
the case study on Maple Leaf Sports
Entertainment and why it's so exciting.
One is, of course, time savings and
efficiency. How do you take the best
talent you have, the creative talent you
have, and be able to say, you know, save
their time and be able to do things more
efficiently? Um, but the more exciting
thing is how do you do more of that? And
so, how do you build an engine that
optimizes itself? Um, how do you build
an creative engine um you know that you
can actually scale uh engagement uh
through with fans? And third is of
course personalization. Um how do you
res create things that really resonate
with specific audiences? Um, and it's
the it's really the content machine, the
engine that helps you do that. Um, so
yeah, that was a little bit about video
understanding. Um, and 12 laps. Hope
that was interesting. Thank you.
>> Now joining So Young on stage, please
welcome back moderator Zoya Hassan.
concrete
>> back.
>> Thank you so much for that presentation.
You must be tired of all the talking.
Please drink your water. Um it's really
fascinating stuff, you know, especially
like as someone non-technical at all
like it's really just fascinating all
the things you can do with AI that I
couldn't ever imagine. But I want to,
you know, humanize the technology a
little bit more and uh talk more about
12 Labs and your story. So, can you tell
me a little bit about when you guys were
founding this company between 24 and 26
years old, all you co-founders, I want
to hear I want to hear a little bit
about the founding days and what it took
for you guys to get to where you are,
the nitty-gritty details.
>> Yeah, absolutely. So, uh we have five
co-founders. Uh I'm on the business
development and the go to market side,
but my co-founders actually uh met
working together um as researchers and
scientists building AI to be able to
understand vast amounts of data from
language, image. They couldn't quite
tackle video because there was no
technology for video understanding at
the time. So that's really where the
idea came from. Um I met our CEO and
co-ound my co-founder and CEO Jay in
high school. So, uh, we met in the ninth
grade in boarding school. Um, and we
bonded. And so, before we started, we
started like I think all of us have been
doing this for more than half of our
adult lives now. But, um, we were
incredibly good friends. We trusted each
other uh, both in terms of what they
could do, the potential, but also, um,
as humans, um, as well.
>> Yeah. Are you guys still good friends?
>> We're all good friends. I'm glad to hear
that. Yeah.
>> Uh 12 Labs has raised over hund00
million. Was that challenging at all?
Especially in the early rounds.
>> Yeah. So as a startup when we had first
started uh it was think 2020 we started
building the tech. We officially
incorporated in 2021 and when we had
started uh LLMs were super nent at the
time too. I don't think I don't know if
GPT3 was out yet. Uh and so the concept
of hey we want to build general purpose
foundation models. They are multimodal
and multimodal means AI can understand
sound, visual and video. Uh, and we want
to build APIs that allows any developer
or enterprise to access capabilities of
these models sounded ridiculous to
investors. Um, and so I remember like we
weren't even talking to investors at the
time because we had a very strong
conviction of what we wanted to do and
why, which was we just want to build um,
models that, you know, anyone can build
on top of. And this was meant to be
general purpose, but that's not
typically not the advice that startup
founders get. Startup founders get the
advice of, hey, find a very narrow
problem, build an application,
completely verticalize first and then
expand. Um, but AI is very different
today. AI has you know hor to build
infrastructural technology uh a lot of
it has to be uh horizontal
>> and so our first ever investor uh was
index ventures actually um and the way
they we got their attention was our CTO
at the time was getting a lot of Aiden
was he's forbes 30 under 30 by the way I
didn't qualify anymore but um so Aiden
uh we got a lot of questions around hey
you you guys are like these young uh
founders
in their 20s and you're like 12 people
who were 12 people at the time 12 people
uh cool stuff but I'm sure every other
hyperscaler Microsoft etc are trying to
do do exactly what you're trying to do
and they have unlimited resources and so
at the time our CTO wanted to prove
something right so we had uh 50k in
compute credits from AWS that they give
to startup founders and so He uh made
made a really big bet and it was a
gamble for us at the time. We had no
funding. So he took 50k in startup
credit. Spent it all on training the
baby baby version of what our models are
today. and uh that was Moringo at the
time and uh built uh AI that could
search retrieve uh from video and he
entered the ICCB value challenge which
is one of the most prestigious uh
conferences and competitions in the AI
like video space uh hosted by Microsoft.
They're essentially competing against
Microsoft state-of-the-art art model and
won first place and that's how uh our
first investors who had a strong thesis
around the future of multimodal
technology uh that's how we first got
connected and then we also got to meet
Dr. or fee and she was als she also
became an investor and um adviser to the
company and yeah
>> incredible. What about landing your
first customer?
How did you pitch them?
>> Yeah, so
um
video is
really
if you think about it it's ubiquitous.
It's in every industry. And so if you're
trying to land your first customer, uh
it means that's exciting, but it's also
really challenging because it means
anyone could be your customer. So we
knocked on many many doors. Um,
and I can't mention this by name, but
uh, one of our very first customer, uh,
we actually had we went to a conference
just to meet him and grab him as he was
walking off the stage from a panel and
he was managing all of the content for
one of the largest sports leagues in the
world.
He was actually presenting
coincidentally about the challenge of
tagging, managing tags and having this
huge organization be able to tap into
all of the archives uh of video assets
they have and how inefficient or
challenging that was. And uh we had like
all of their like we found videos from
their organization on YouTube. We made a
customized demo for him. as he was
coming off of stage, we grabbed him, de
did a demo for him on our iPad. Um, and
he we were super lucky. We did many of
these types of things. But when you find
the right person at the right
organization with the right problem, um,
they will understand that you're really
early as a company and as a product. And
actually, we signed our first PC with
him for $5,000. And really the $5,000
was to, you know, it's to make sure we
can actually go through a legal process.
Um, but what we were doing was we were
learning and uh we learned so much from
him around the processes of media
management uh and uh kind of use them as
a design partner to be able to build our
product and technology around them. Um
and kind of we were at the same time
we're exploring all of these other
potential customers around how do we you
know is this applicable to other
prospects and the larger market. Um but
if you can do that while you're working
with you know the first few uh customers
who really believe in you not just
because what of what you have now but
because of the future of like what
you're trying to create. Then it becomes
an incredible partnership and uh we
still work with them today and they're
at different you know organizations now.
Um, but you know, they bring you them
bring you with them as well.
>> Yeah, absolutely. So, what I heard from
that guys is that if you would like to
grab her as she's walking on stage and
picture your product, she's open to it.
um what should this crowd know about
building an AI
especially you know what's the
opportunity for small startups to be
really successful when there's such big
players in the AI world that are
dominating you know whether that's open
AI that's enthropic like they dominate
the scene but startups are obviously
necessary and that might be
collaboration and not competition right
so any thoughts on that uh you have to
really understand I think your your
problem space really really well. If you
think about hyperscalers and how large
companies work, they have so many
products and sometimes within even
within their organizations,
you might have a lot of silos. And for
startups, the biggest strength that we
still we have and we we protect and we
grow, we need to grow as we grow as a
company is how do you minimize and
shorten the life the communication cycle
between what you're learning from market
and how that gets back into product and
be able to create the flywheel. Uh, and
if we're talking about AI, that would be
a flywheel between how do you go from
market um to product to data to to
research and back again. And uh video is
interesting because video isn't just
about the model. It's also about
everything that has to do with
processing video at scale really
efficiently. Um, and so for us that was
a huge moment that we had, the speed,
the focus, the prioritization. Um, and
that's something that uh large companies
simply cannot do. And if you've raised
money as founders, then you're spending
all of that capital on solving this one
problem. No other organization is going
to spend invest everything they have
into solving that single problem. So, um
I think it's being able to really
vocalize like what problem you're
solving really well and just go after
that specific thing. Um because really
that's that's your that becomes your
strength.
>> No, that's really great advice. My last
question for you and arguably the most
important one. Why is there an 11 labs
and a 12 labs? And who came first?
>> 12 Labs came first.
>> Okay.
>> Almost I think a year. Um but we we work
we know the 11 Labs folks really well.
Actually a couple years ago there was
like a something that started on
Twitter. Um same question. We get this
all the time. And so we did a hackathon
at Shack 15 in SF called 23 Labs. We
called it the 23 Labs multimodal AI
hackathon. Um we're actually doing
another one in a couple weeks in New
York. This one's going to be focused on
advertising and like multimodal AI um to
power like advertising technology. Um
but yeah, amazing. I know we got some
audience questions, but we're
unfortunately out of time. Are you open
to, you know, people asking you
questions when you're out in the crowd
later?
>> Yes, absolutely.
>> Okay, catch it then, guys. Thank you so
much, So Young.
>> Thank you, everyone.
>> Thank you all.